The next thing is, let's find notes.
So this one's kinda cool,
a little bit of filtering.
So we can say export const findNotes, and
this one takes in a filter, so a string.
And basically what we wanna do,
is we wanna use that string
to just do a very cheap,
super broke full text
searching on some strings.
We're just gonna use the dot
includes on a string.
That's the poor person's searching.
So we're gonna do that to
find a note that matches
whatever search criteria that you put in.
So, let's do that.
In order to do that,
we have to get all the notes.
So let's get all the notes.
We can say await notes = await,
and then getDB(),
and we're gonna destructure
those notes like that.
So let's get those notes.
And then once we have those notes,
we can just say,
let's just return the notes.filter,
which returns a brand new array.
So we'll say, if the note.content,
remember notes have content,
we put that here.
Notes.content, I need to
normalize the strings
because when you match characters,
capitalization matters.
So if someone saved a note with all caps
or one capital letter, but they wanna go
search for the same word without
a capital letter, it would not match.
So I'm going to normalize it by just
either upper casing everything or
lower casing everything.
So I'm just gonna lowercase everything.
So toLowerCase() this content, and
then .includes this filter.toLowerCase().
So basically, yeah, I'm just doing a
filter over the notes array, and checking
to see if each note's content includes
whatever the filter was passed in.
So what does this actually look like?
So a note might have a content like this,
walk my dog today,
this might be a note, right?
And then a filter might be
something like this, my dog, right?
So this would match, right?
And also if it was like this,
this should still match because
I lowercased everything.
Because this string includes this string.
What if it was like, that would not
work because includes is not that smart.
Okay, and
filter just returns a brand new array.
So findNotes should return an array
of filtered note that match, or
an empty array of notes that don't match,
so should be good that.
Okay, we got findNotes.
Now we need to do removeNote.
So this takes in a note id.
This is why I was given all the nores ids,
cuz you wanna be able to find
a note by an id and do something.
In this case, we wanna remove it.
So in order to remove a note,
we need to first get all the notes.
Second, we actually don't need to
do this part, the only reason I'm
doing this part is to basically
return undefined if it doesn't exist.
But we don't have to do
this part right here,
because we're already kinda doing it here,
but basically we'll do this part to see.
First, we'll check to see if,
is there even a note in our
database that matches this id?
And then if there is a match,
then we'll go ahead and
create an entirely new notes array since
that match, so basically remove it.
And that's what this filter is doing.
So a filter, again, it makes it an
entirely new array, but it won't include
it, I'm sorry, it'll only include
notes whose ids don't match this id,
which we know there's at least one
in there because this was true.
And then we'll save that entirely
new notes to the database, and
then we'll just return the id.
And then if this is false,
it'll go to after this if statement,
which is nothing, so
it'll just return undefined.
So let's do that.
So, const remove or
export const removeNote,
take an id, async.
And yeah, I don't have to put parentheses
around this if it's just one argument on
the arrow function, by the way.
So this doesn't need parentheses
if you don't want to.
If it's more than one argument,
you gotta put parenthesis.
So let's get the notes.
Wait, let's destructure this,
getDB, so let's get those notes.
And then we just need to
see if there's a match.
Const match = notes.find (
note whose note.id= id).
If there is a match, Then we need to say,
const newNotes= notes.filter( on
a note whose note.id
does not equals the id).
So make a new array with every note
that doesn't have that matching id.
So, theoretically,
we're not removing the one that matches,
we're just making a new one and
not including it.
So that's the difference.
We could remove it.
We could just say, cool,
give me the index of that note and
then remove it from the array.
But I'd rather do a non or
a mutable approach, as in,
I'm not modifying this notes array,
I'm just making an entirely new array.
Okay, so we got new notes.
So now we'll save this, so await saveDB.
It's an entireDB, so we gotta put
the whole object back in here, right,
this whole object.
So, and that has a notes property,
which is newNotes.
And then we can just return the id.
Any questions on that?
It's a really convoluted process.
Like I said,
we didn't really need to do this match.
We could have just said, hey, just go
ahead and do this filter and do that.
But I wanted to make sure to do undefined,
yes?
>> Line 26, double equals?
>> Yeah, sorry, there we go.
>> Or triple.
>> There we go, yep.
I know people are looking at it and
they're like, what was he doing?
[LAUGH] Yeah.
Cool, any questions?
>> So for this example of that function,
you would need to have
that entire date string or
date number for that id,
you'd need to know that?
>> Yeah, you would need to know the id.
Yep, you will have to know it.
But if you think about it,
how does that work in reality?
You yourself wouldn't need to know
because the UI would know, right?
Imagine this was a list of notes and
I click the delete button on it.
Okay, that thing that I clicked on
knows its own id, so it sends it up.
So the person that clicked it
wouldn't know what the id was, but
the thing that was clicked
on knows what it was.
We don't have a UI.
So yeah, you would need to know the id
of the one that you wanna delete.
So yeah.
I guess another way around it is you
can give notes unique titles, and
then you can delete it from a title.
But yeah, yes?
>> Is there a reason you're returning
a new array instead of mutating them?
>> Is there a reason?
I've just practiced a habit
of being immutable since,
I don't know, I've been doing
this since flux was a thing.
Have you ever heard of that?
[LAUGH] I mean, to be honest,
most people just avoid mutating anything
because it can cause side effects.
I know in an early example
I did do a mutation.
I forgot where, I think in the DB.js,
right here, I did a mutation here.
So it's not that I'm
stuck on immutability.
It's just that I just try to avoid
side effects as much as possible.
So creating new instances, it's typically
easier than mutating previous ones,
especially if you have
a lot of logic going on.
So for me, I think I've developed
this pattern of not getting
myself into trouble with things later
when stuff starts breaking, and
mutating stuff is one of those things
that always get me into trouble.
So I just try to stay immutable.
But there can be downsides to that as well
if you're in a constrained environment,
like for instance,
when I worked at Netflix,
we had like a memory budget on a TV.
Cuz TVs only have so much resources, so
just creating new objects out of nowhere,
it's pretty taxing and expensive.
So you have to work around that.
So it really just depends, but
I'm on my machine on a MacBook,
so I'm gonna make as
many objects as I want.
Cool, good question.
What else we got?
We have our last one, remove all.
Then this one is just, it's so free.
It's just handed to us.
So removeAllNotes, it's basically
a one-liner here, and that's just await.
And we don't even need await here,
we can just return the set.
What is it?
What do I have?
There we go, saveDB.
We can just say, saveDB, notes,
empty array, just reset it.
So if you just have one line of code after
the arrow, you don't need the brackets,
you don't need these brackets,
and the return is implicit.
It's implied that this is returning.
You don't need the brackets.
And I don't need to async await this cuz
I don't have a code running after it.
So I can just return it, and
it's a promise, and it works.
So I don't have to async await this,
cuz I'm not doing anything after it, so
I don't need to wait for it to be done.
Cool, although I did await here,
I don't have to.
It works either way.
You don't have to.
Okay, I'll talk about what everything
does as I was doing it, but
if you wanna see what everything is done,
I have an explanation for every function
here, you can take a look at all of that.
But I guess I could just
walk through it right quick.
So newNote, takes a note,
takes in tags, creates a new note,
saves it in the database without
overwriting the entire database.
getAllNotes does exactly what it says,
it gets all the notes in the database and
returns that.
findNotes takes a string and
grabs all the notes, and
checks to see if any note in our database
has this string as a substring for
its content, and if it does,
it returns all those matching notes.
removeNote takes an id, checks to see if
there is any note in the database with
that matching id and removes it.
It actually doesn't remove it,
it just creates a new one, sends that one.
And then removeAllNotes just
resets the database to nothing.